The scene is a room in a small Sussex manor house that has long been
for sale. It is such a silent room that whoever speaks first here is
a bold one, unless indeed he merely mutters to himself, which they
perhaps allow. All of this room’s past which can be taken away has
gone. Such light as there is comes from the only window, which is at
the back and is incompletely shrouded in sacking. For a moment this is
a mellow light, and if a photograph could be taken quickly we might
find a disturbing smile on the room’s face, perhaps like the Mona
Lisa’s, which came, surely, of her knowing what only the dead should
know. There are two doors, one leading downstairs; the other is at the
back, very insignificant, though it is the centre of this disturbing
history. The wall-paper, heavy in the adherence of other papers of a
still older date, has peeled and leans forward here and there in a
grotesque bow, as men have hung in chains; one might predict that the
next sound heard here will be in the distant future when another piece
of paper loosens. Save for two packing-cases, the only furniture is
a worn easy-chair doddering by the unlit fire, like some foolish old
man. We might play with the disquieting fancy that this room, once
warm with love, is still alive but is shrinking from observation, and
that with our departure they cunningly set to again at the apparently
never-ending search which goes on in some empty old houses._

_Some one is heard clumping up the stair, and the caretaker enters. It
is not she, however, who clumps; she has been here for several years,
and has become sufficiently a part of the house to move noiselessly
in it. The first thing we know about her is that she does not like to
be in this room. She is an elderly woman of gaunt frame and with a
singular control over herself. There may be some one, somewhere, who
can make her laugh still, one never knows, but the effort would hurt
her face. Even the war, lately ended, meant very little to her. She
has shown a number of possible purchasers over the house, just as she
is showing one over it now, with the true caretaker’s indifference
whether you buy or not. The few duties imposed on her here she performs
conscientiously, but her greatest capacity is for sitting still in the
dark. Her work over, her mind a blank, she sits thus rather than pay
for a candle. One knows a little more about life when he knows the Mrs.
Oterys, but she herself is unaware that she is peculiar, and probably
thinks that in some such way do people in general pass the hour before
bedtime. Nevertheless, though saving of her candle in other empty
houses, she always lights it on the approach of evening in this one._

_The man who has clumped up the stairs in her wake is a young
Australian soldier, a private, such as in those days you met by the
dozen in any London street, slouching along it forlornly if alone,
with sudden stoppages to pass the time (in which you ran against
him), or in affable converse with a young lady. In his voice is the
Australian tang that became such a friendly sound to us. He is a rough
fellow, sinewy, with the clear eye of the man with the axe whose chief
life-struggle till the war came was to fell trees and see to it that
they did not crash down on him. Mrs. Otery is showing him the house,
which he has evidently known in other days, but though interested he is
unsentimental and looks about him with a tolerant grin._

cloud computing
MRS. OTERY. Whatever it is she prowls about this cold house searching
for, searching, searching. I don’t know what it is.

HARRY (_grimly_). Maybe I could tell you. I dare say I could even put
her in the way of finding him.

MRS. OTERY. Then I wish to God you would, and let her rest.

HARRY. My old dear, there are worse things than not finding what you
are looking for; there is finding them so different from what you had
hoped. (_He moves about._) A ghost. Oh no--and yet, and yet-- See here,
I am going into that room.

MRS. OTERY. As you like; I care not.

HARRY. I’ll burst open the door.

MRS. OTERY. No need; it’s not locked; I cheated you about that.

HARRY. But I tried it and it wouldn’t open.

  (_MRS. OTERY is very unhappy._)

You think she is in there?

MRS. OTERY. She may be.

HARRY (_taking a deep breath_). Give me air.

  (_He throws open the window and we see that it is a night of stars._)

Leave me here now. I have a call to make.

MRS. OTERY (_hesitating_). I dunno. You think you’re in no danger,
but----

HARRY. That is how it is to be, missis. Just ten minutes you were out
of the room, did you say?

MRS. OTERY. That was all.

HARRY. God!

  (_She leaves him. After a moment’s irresolution he sets off upon his
  quest carrying the candle, which takes with it all the light of the
  room. He is visible on the other side of the darkness, in the little
  passage and opening the door beyond. He returns, and now we see the
  pale ghost of MARY ROSE standing in the middle of the room, as if
  made out of the light he has brought back with him._)

MARY ROSE (_bowing to him timidly_). Have you come to buy the house?

HARRY (_more startled by his own voice than by hers_). Not me.

MARY ROSE. It is a very nice house. (_Doubtfully._) Isn’t it?

HARRY. It was a nice house once.

MARY ROSE (_pleased_). Wasn’t it! (_Suspiciously._) Did you know this
house?

HARRY. When I was a young shaver.

MARY ROSE. Young? Was it you who laughed?

HARRY. When was that?

MARY ROSE (_puzzled_). There was once some one who laughed in this
house. Don’t you think laughter is a very pretty sound?

HARRY (_out of his depths_). Is it? I dare say. I never thought about
it.

MARY ROSE. You are quite old.

HARRY. I’m getting on.

MARY ROSE (_confidentially_). Would you mind telling me why every one
is so old? I don’t know you, do I?

HARRY. I wonder. Take a look. You might have seen me in the old
days--playing about--outside in the garden--or even inside.

MARY ROSE. You--you are not Simon, are you?

HARRY. No. (_Venturing._) My name is Harry.

MARY ROSE (_stiffening_). I don’t think so. I strongly object to your
saying that.

HARRY. I’m a queer sort of cove, and I would like to hear you call me
Harry.

MARY ROSE (_firmly_). I decline. I regret, but I absolutely decline.

HARRY. No offence.

MARY ROSE. I think you are sorry for me.

HARRY. I am that.

MARY ROSE. I am sorry for me, too.

HARRY (_desperately desirous to help her_). If only there was something
I-- I know nothing about ghosts--not a thing; can they sit down? Could
you----?

  (_He turns the chair toward her._)

MARY ROSE. That is your chair.

HARRY. What do you mean by that?

MARY ROSE. That is where you were sitting.

HARRY. Were you in this room when I was sitting there?
